## 3.1-create-address.js - creating an address

This tutorial teaches how to generate addresses from a seed.  Addresses are used to send transactions.

## Step-by-step explanation of 3.1-create-address.js

First, generate a seed.  This example suggests using a Unix random number generator.  You may use other random number generators or randomly type 81 9A-Z characters.  Backup your seed.  This seed can be used for other tutorials, experimentation, or development projects.

```
///////////////////////////////
// Create an address from a new seed
/////
// First: run this code in a Unix based terminal to generate an 81 Tryte seed.
// 'cat /dev/urandom |LC_ALL=C tr -dc 'A-Z9' | fold -w 81 | head -n 1'
// Paste the output of the above code into the 'seed' section below.
///////////////////////////////
```

Use the core JavaScript library

```
const iotaLibrary = require('@iota/core')

const iota = iotaLibrary.composeAPI({
  provider: 'https://nodes.devnet.thetangle.org:443'
})
```

Copy and paste your seed

```
const seed =
  'ASDFHWERUIVNIOUQVDNAIUENVCUIEINDSVSKSDUIEFDKNLDNKFIUREGDKNV9E9FEV9DSFF9VE99EFVLND'
```

Set the index and the total number of addresses to be generated.  Here one address is generated starting at index 0

```
iota
  .getNewAddress(seed, { index: 0, total: 1 })
  .then(address => {
    console.log('Your address is: ' + address)
    console.log('Paste this address into https://faucet.devnet.iota.org')
  })
  .catch(err => {
    console.log(err)
  })
```

Notice:  This script includes an instruction for pasting the generated address into the IOTA faucet.  The IOTA faucet "drips" test iota for developers to use for learning and experimentation.

> Keep track of all addresses and their index numbers for each seed

If you want to generate another address for this seed, you must increment the index number to 1 as shown below:

```  .getNewAddress(seed, { index: 1, total: 1 })```

You may also generate more than one address by changing the total to the number of addresses you need.  But be mindful, transactions must be confirmed in the order that addresses were generated.  For example, a transaction with address index zero must be confirmed BEFORE a transaction with address index one.

> Transactions must be confirmed in address index order

RESULT

```GetNewAddressOptions: 1 options are deprecated and will be removed in v.2.0.0.

Your address is: NZZFDEVNFLNP9UJVMLCHNZGNNYYPC9KLNXUBGFBQYFVKCVYYHKNDGVIJECJALFPBPEKLWFHTMQIZPFSAW
Paste this address into https://faucet.devnet.iota.org
```

In this example, seed:
ASDFHWERUIVNIOUQVDNAIUENVCUIEINDSVSKSDUIEFDKNLDNKFIUREGDKNV9E9FEV9DSFF9VE99EFVLND

Has one address at index zero:
NZZFDEVNFLNP9UJVMLCHNZGNNYYPC9KLNXUBGFBQYFVKCVYYHKNDGVIJECJALFPBPEKLWFHTMQIZPFSAW


> This seed and address have been publicized for demonstration purposes only.  They are not secure.  Re-using them may yield unexpected results.  
